---
title: Factory functions and API wrappers with Axios and Nuxt.js
description: How are you organizing your API calls? Consolidate interaction with your APIs to a single source in your codebase.
category: development
published: true
---

JavaScript factory functions are a design pattern that allows for the creation of similar objects using a single function. These functions can be used to create objects with pre-defined properties and methods, making it easy to work with similar data structures. In this post, we will explore how to use factory functions in conjunction with API wrappers built with Axios and Nuxt.js to create a dynamic and reusable application.

First, let's take a look at a simple example of a factory function in JavaScript. The following code creates a factory function that creates objects with a name and age property:

```javascript
function createPerson(name, age) {
  return {
    name: name,
    age: age
  }
}

const person1 = createPerson('John', 30);
console.log(person1.name); // 'John'
console.log(person1.age); // 30

const person2 = createPerson('Jane', 25);
console.log(person2.name); // 'Jane'
console.log(person2.age); // 25
```

As you can see, the `createPerson` function takes in a name and age and returns an object with those properties. By calling the function multiple times with different arguments, we can create multiple objects with the same structure.

Now, let's take a look at how we can use Axios, a popular JavaScript library for making HTTP requests, to create an API wrapper. The following code shows an example of how to use Axios to get data from an API endpoint:

```javascript
import axios from 'axios';

const API_URL = 'https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users';

function getUsers() {
  return axios.get(API_URL)
    .then(response => response.data);
}

getUsers()
  .then(users => console.log(users));
```

This code imports Axios and defines an API endpoint URL. The `getUsers` function makes a GET request to the endpoint using Axios and returns the data from the response. By calling the `getUsers` function, we can easily retrieve data from the API without having to worry about the details of the underlying HTTP request.

Finally, let's see how we can use Nuxt.js, a framework for building server-rendered Vue.js applications, to create a dynamic and reusable application. The following code shows an example of how to use Nuxt.js to create a page that displays a list of users from the API:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    <div v-for="user in users" :key="user.id">
      {{ user.name }}
    </div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import { getUsers } from './api.js';

export default {
  async asyncData({ params }) {
    const users = await getUsers();
    return { users };
  }
}
</script>
```

This code creates a Vue.js component that displays a list of users retrieved from the API. The `asyncData` method is a Nuxt.js lifecycle hook that allows us to retrieve data before the component is rendered. In this case, we are calling the getUsers function from the API wrapper to retrieve the data and passing it to the component as a property